Niblite:With it's glowing body, this monster is really helpful when the island starts to turn dark, as it's body's light source is said to be able to light up almost the whole island. Sadly though, even though it's as bright as it can be, it provides no warmth for its colleagues. And if the light was to go out, Niblite would basically just... die. The surges going through it's body that keep it's heart beating are produced by the lightbulb on top of it's head, so if that runs out, it's gone for good.
Pitchfall:Pitchfalls are always the silliest monsters that you may come across. From their funny jokes to their excellent singing skills, they sure know how to crack anyone up. Originating from the deciduous trees of the Whisperwood Grove, Pitchfalls grow in small beanstalk-like pods. After they grow enough, they slowly remove their age-bound shell. From floating in the middle of a broken reality to living in an everlasting cove, Pitchfall makes sure to bring along their elegant rhythm!
Truphly:After hearing myths and fables regarding treasures deep in the Frozen Depths, Truphly knew that it had to capitalise while it could. Bearing a miner's helmet and a pickaxe, Truphly began buzzing down the shafts leading deep into the depths. Unfortunately, this monster was caught in an avalanche and left trapped on the Frozen Cove.
Shadolt:Shadolts are masters of deceit in the Elemental World, often trying to con it's peers out of coins. Whilst the orbs they stand upon bare a striking resemblance to a precious currency, these orbs are in fact fakes. Whenever a misfortunate mon makes a purchase of one of these false orbs, the Shadolt leaps out of it's body and possesses the patron, in order to find even more monsters to scam.
Wallagumper:If you have a keen ear, you might hear the calls and wails of the Wallagumper. I was lucky enough to be one of those people! From the looks of it, it seems to come from an old village, or something like that. Oddly enough,  it got irritated at the sight of a goose. I wonder what it could mean? Either way, the Wallagumper is weird, but I can't help but chuckle at it sometimes.
Potaschpell:Have you ever wondered what would happen if you mixed together every drink that you could find into one? The Potaschpell is the perfect example of this! Rumours say that years ago, an evil witch was brewing up a remedy in order to seize power over an enchanted kingdom. After pouring in far too many ingredients into her batch of beverages, she was stunned to see a pair of green glowing eyes staring back!
Stitchum:"Finally, freed from that icy prison!" is what this monster would have probably shouted after being broken out of the enchanted ice. ...Before promptly remembering the curse put up on it... The Stitchum's curse bounds the creature inside to the strings it has tried in vain to destroy. Though, at this point (probably after realising that it's pointless to try breaking out) it's tried to find a way to lighten this otherwise draining predicament. It has found that the strings actually make a very pleasant sound when plucked. So, that's how it's chosen to spend it's free time. Practising playing the strings that had, and still do, bind it in place. But don't mistake it's new hobby for giving up. Every now and then it tugs on the strings, just to check.
Jelteejug:SPLASH! SPLASH! Here comes the glorious Jelteejug! Similar to all "drinkable" friends in this vast monsterous plane, you do not wanna taste the toxic juice that inhabits the body of the Jelteejug. This large jelly figure stands a crucial role in why all the monsters decided to take a journey down to the cove. They were the one to notify the others of the prized items that sit in the depths below. Why would they listen to them? The reason is that the Jellteejug is one of the nicest monsters to ever step foot in the cove! Jelteejugs can breathe in the water that surrounds the cove, so they timely catch some fish for the rest of the monsters to eat. What a helpful jar of joy!
Rib-Eat:The Rib-Eat is regarded as the "Glutton" of the Frozen Cove, and is often the main cause of food scarcities within the icey fortress. Unexpectedly, this food-fixated monster is a descendant of one of the Elemental World's strongest predators. However, due to Rib-Eat's excessive eating, the monster can hardly even move! Instead, it attempts to lean towards and eat the gumballs surrounded it. How lazy!
Chygll:It is rumoured that the illusive Chygll was crafted from the many mechanical hands of the great TinkerTonker himself. This marvellous machine originates from the workshop of the TinkerTonker, but after the incident of the Gearsnap Ziggazap, was left abandoned in a dark, icey cave beneath the surface. Over time, this monster adapted to it's environment, picking up gold and gems as it ventured deeper and deeper into the network. Eventually, this monster tripped a wire, and was sent tumbling down a chute straight into the Frozen Cove. How unfortunate!
Timbalog:No one really knows how an ent could of ended up in such a frigid environment, yet here we are! The markings on this timbalog, however, are special, rumoured to of been painted by a long forgotten civilisation.
Lumintipus:The Lumintipus is a species of Cyber-Squid native to the Frozen Depths beneath the Elemental World. This adventurous arpeggiator is the only monster that is able to escape the Frozen Cove, however it chooses not to due to befriending the inhabitants.
Djyeti:The fabled Djyeti is a cryptid of staggering mystery. Wise monsters speak tales of its great strength, whilst others fear it. However - the longing for treasures and riches is far too powerful even for a Monster of such will as the Djyeti. Due to its chilly fate within the Frozen Cove, there has been no definitive proof of the monsters existence. When not debated among skeptics, the Djyeti  plays songs on its reliable and sturdy drum! Although the Djyeti might seem very bulky and strong, it has a big and warm heart! It may look irritated or angry, but that's just a well-crafted facade.
Escarmor:Escarmor was taken in at a young age by the great TinkerTonker. This unfortunate soul had become lost from it's gallant group of gastropods, and ended up right at the workshop's doorstep. Out of the kindness of the TinkerTonker's mechanical oil-filled heart, it repaired Escarmor back to full health, armouring it with countless upgrades and weaponry on it. After the incident, this monster was abandoned in a frozen tundra to fend for itself. After many days of wondering around, Escarmor found solace in a cave beneath a mountain. However, in the monster's sleep, it was carried down a slope by melting ice, and ended up inside a gigantic cove!
ToTempo:Never before has there ever been discovered to be a monster with as much coalescence as To-tempo, from Pod to Peaks each singular creature serves its own purpose. Pod makes sure everyone is properly supported, whether that be nutrients or literally keeping them held up high. Peaks always on edge, keeping everyone safe from any oncoming threats. We honestly have no idea what Pog and Puff contribute to the stack, but they are cared for like any other. ToTempos are truly the totem of perfect a symbiotic relationship. 
Musharp:Originating from the deep Fungal Forests of Pholowah, Musharps are masterful musicians. These shrooms naturally secrete a special goo, which they manipulate into strings and pluck with their psychic abilities.
